---
title: Welcome to FUSION
date: 2025-05-02 21:15:12 +0400
categories: [Background, FUSION]
tags: [info,background,fusion]
author: sam
description: Background and motivation of FUSION
toc: true
media_subpath: /assets/img/welcome/
---

# Background

## Spatial --Omics Data

- image here showing diagram of spatial omics data

Spatial --omics data greatly expands the ability of researchers to pose complex hypotheses surrounding the spatial distribution of genomic markers. Compared to bulk sequencing, spatial --omics techniques focus on the preservation of where a particular signal is derived from relative to other signals in the same experiment. This data allows for testing colocalization of certain --omics (transcriptomics, metabolomics, proteomics, etc.) with other characteristics of a dataset as well as relational properties to other areas of a sample.

## Histopathology

- image here showing histology data

Histopatholoy is a sub-field of pathology wherein disease is studied in the context of microscopic examination of tissue structures. This can include a wide array of different scales from light microscopy to electron microscopy to better understand physical determinants of disease. 

## Quantification of histological structures

One of the challenges (of which there are several), in incorporating large-scale computational methods into a pathology workflow is the challenge of extracting precise measurements from histological structures. The first thing to consider here is the scale of the data which is present in even a modestly sized biopsy scan. Observations which can be informative for diagnoses can be made at varying scales, although for broad applicability slides are usually scanned at a high resolution (~20-40X magnification). The resulting image can then be in the neighborhood of 100k pixels by 100k pixels, putting these images firmly in gigapixel territory.

## Integration of multi-modal data

Even assuming that quantification of histological structures is performed, the next challenge is integrating all available data which may include some spatial --omics method and presenting it in a way that enables generation and testing of biological hypotheses. 
